# R-Books

Useful R books, by [Packt](https://www.packtpub.com/?utm_source=r.github.com&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=Outreachdollar5)


- [Practical Neural Networks and Deep Learning in R [Video]](https://www.packtpub.com/data/practical-neural-networks-and-deep-learning-in-r-video?utm_source=r.github.com&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=OutreachV15858dollar5)This course will give you a robust grounding in the main aspects of practical neural networks and deep learning. You will dig deep into the data science features of R that will give you a one-of-a-kind grounding in data science. You will go all the way from carrying out data reading & cleaning to finally implementing powerful Neural Networks and Deep Learning algorithms and evaluating their performance using R. With this course, you’ll have the keys to the entire R Neural Networks and Deep Learning kingdom! You’ll start by absorbing the most valuable R Data Science basics and techniques. Discover easy-to-understand, hands-on methods to simplify and address even the most difficult concepts in R. You will see how to implement the methods using real data obtained from different sources. After taking this course, you’ll be able to easily use data science packages like the caret, H2O, mxnet to work with real data in R. You’ll even understand the underlying concepts to understand what algorithms and methods are best suited for your data.

- [Hands-On Reinforcement Learning with R](https://www.packtpub.com/data/hands-on-reinforcement-learning-with-r?utm_source=r.github.com&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=OutreachB12083dollar5)Reinforcement Learning is an exciting part of machine learning. It has uses in technology from autonomous cars to game playing, and creates algorithms that can adapt to environmental changes. This book helps to understand how to implement RL with R, and explores interesting practical examples, such as using tabular Q-learning to control robots.

- [Species Distribution Models with GIS and Machine Learning in R [Video]](https://www.packtpub.com/business-other/species-distribution-models-with-gis-and-machine-learning-in-r-video?utm_source=r.github.com&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=OutreachV15860dollar5) In this course, you’ll work with real-world spatial data from Peninsular Malaysia to gain hands-on experience with mapping habitat suitability in conjunction with classical SDM models, such as MaxENT and Bioclim, and machine learning alternatives, such as random forests. The course will ensure that you are equipped to put spatial data and machine learning analysis into practice right away. You’ll have developed the skills necessary for working with ecological data and impress  potential employers with your GIS and machine learning skills in R. Throughout the course, you’ll learn how to map suitable habitats for species using R. You’ll also explore common ecological modeling techniques and species distribution modeling (SDM) using real-life data. As you advance, the course will guide you in implementing some of the common Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and spatial data analysis techniques in R and use it to access ecological data.  You’ll perform common GIS and data analysis tasks related to SDMs, including accessing species-presence data, and get to grips with classical SDM techniques.

- [Advanced Deep Learning with R](https://www.packtpub.com/data/advanced-deep-learning-with-r?utm_source=r.github.com&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=OutreachB11695dollar5) This book will help readers to apply deep learning algorithms in R using advanced examples. You will cover variants of neural network models such as ANN, CNN, RNN, LSTM, and more using expert techniques. Readers will make use of popular deep learning libraries such as Keras-R, Tensorflow-R, and more to implement AI models.

- [Complete Data Wrangling and Data Visualization in R [Video]](https://www.packtpub.com/data/complete-data-wrangling-and-data-visualization-in-r-video?utm_source=r.github.com&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=OutreachV15947dollar5) This course is a sure-fire way to acquire the knowledge and statistical data analysis wrangling and visualization skills you need.
HERE IS WHAT THIS COURSE WILL DO FOR YOU:
• It will introduce some of the most important data visualization concepts to you in a practical manner so that you can apply these concepts to practical data analysis and interpretation.
• You will also be able to decide which wrangling and visualization techniques are best suited to answering your research questions and applicable to your data, and you'll interpret the results.
• The course will mostly focus on helping you implement different techniques on real-life data such as Olympic and Nobel Prize winners
• After each video, you will learn a new concept or technique which you can apply to your own projects immediately! You'll reinforce your knowledge through practical quizzes and assignments

- [Harness the Power of Tidyverse for Data Preprocessing and Visualisation in R [Video]](https://www.packtpub.com/data/harness-the-power-of-tidyverse-for-data-preprocessing-and-visualisation-in-r-video?utm_source=r.github.com&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=OutreachV15948dollar5) This is your roadmap to becoming highly proficient in data preprocessing, data wrangling, and data visualization using two of the most in-demand R data science packages.
 What this course will do for you:
•It will take you from a basic level to a level where you'll perform some of the most common data wrangling tasks in R—with two of the most well-known R data science packages: Tidyverse and dplyr.
•It will equip you to use some of the most important R data wrangling and visualization packages such as dplyr and ggplot2.
•It will Introduce you, in a practical way, to some of the most important data visualization concepts so that you can apply them to practical data analysis and interpretation.
•You will also be able to decide which wrangling and visualization techniques are best suited to answering your research questions and most applicable to your data, so that you can interpret the results.
•The course will mostly focus on helping you implement different techniques on real-life data
After each video, you will have learned a new concept or technique and will be able to apply it to your own projects immediately!

- [Regression Analysis for Statistics and Machine Learning in R [Video]](https://www.packtpub.com/programming/regression-analysis-for-statistics-and-machine-learning-in-r-video?utm_source=r.github.com&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=OutreachV15861dollar5) With so many R Statistics and Machine Learning courses around, why enroll for this?
Regression analysis is one of the central aspects of both statistical- and machine learning-based analysis. This course will teach you regression analysis for both statistical data analysis and machine learning in R in a practical, hands-on way. It explores relevant concepts in a practical way, from basic to expert level. This course can help you achieve better grades, gain new analysis tools for your academic career, implement your knowledge in a work setting, and make business forecasting-related decisions. You will go all the way from implementing and inferring simple OLS (Ordinary Least Square) regression models to dealing with issues of multicollinearity in regression to machine learning-based regression models.
Become a Regression Analysis Expert and Harness the Power of R for Your Analysis
• Get started with R and RStudio. Install these on your system, learn to load packages, and read in different types of data in R
• Carry out data cleaning and data visualization using R
• Implement Ordinary Least Square (OLS) regression in R and learn how to interpret the results.
• Learn how to deal with multicollinearity both through the variable selection and regularization techniques such as ridge regression
• Carry out variable and regression model selection using both statistical and machine learning techniques, including using cross-validation methods.
• Evaluate the regression model accuracy
• Implement Generalized Linear Models (GLMs) such as logistic regression and Poisson regression. Use logistic regression as a binary classifier to distinguish between male and female voices.
• Use non-parametric techniques such as Generalized Additive Models (GAMs) to work with non-linear and non-parametric data.
• Work with tree-based machine learning models

- [Clustering and Classification with Machine Learning in R [Video]](https://www.packtpub.com/data/clustering-and-classification-with-machine-learning-in-r-video?utm_source=r.github.com&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=OutreachV15857dollar5) This course is your complete guide to both supervised and unsupervised learning using R. This course covers all the main aspects of practical data science; if you take this course, there is no need to take other courses or buy books on R-based data science. In this age of big data, companies across the Globe use R to sift through the avalanche of information at their disposal. By becoming proficient in unsupervised and supervised learning in R, you can give your company a competitive edge and take your career to the next level.
Over the course of research, the author realized that almost all the R data science courses and books out there do take account of the multidimensional nature of the topic. This course will give you a robust grounding in the main aspects of machine learning: clustering and classification. Unlike other R instructors, the author digs deep into R's machine learning features and give you a one-of-a-kind grounding in data science! You will go all the way from carrying out data reading & cleaning to machine learning, to finally implementing powerful machine learning algorithms and evaluating their performance via R.
The following topics will be covered: -
• A full introduction to the R Framework for data science
• Data structures and reading in R, including CSV, Excel, and HTML data
• How to pre-process and clean data by removing NAs/No data, visualization
• Machine learning, supervised learning, and unsupervised learning in R
• Model building and selection and much more!
The course will help you implement methods using real data obtained from different sources. Many courses use made-up data that does not empower students to implement R-based data science in real life. After taking this course, you'll easily use data science packages such as Caret to work with real data in R. You'll even understand concepts such as unsupervised learning, dimension reduction, and supervised learning.



Useful R books, written with the [bookdown pkg](https://bookdown.org/)
  
- [bookdown](https://bookdown.org/yihui/bookdown/) bookdown: Authoring Books and Technical Documents with R Markdown.
This short book introduces an R package, bookdown, to change your workflow of writing books. It should be technically easy to write a book, visually pleasant to view the book, fun to interact with the book, convenient to navigate through the book, straightforward for readers to contribute or leave feedback to the book author(s), and more importantly, authors should not always be distracted by typesetting details.

- [Advanced R](https://adv-r.hadley.nz/) This is the website for work-in-progress 2nd edition of “Advanced R”, a book in Chapman & Hall’s R Series. The book is designed primarily for R users who want to improve their programming skills and understanding of the language. It should also be useful for programmers coming to R from other languages, as it explains some of R’s quirks and shows how some parts that seem horrible do have a positive side.

- [Efficient R programming](https://csgillespie.github.io/efficientR/) Drawing on years of experience teaching R courses, authors Colin Gillespie and Robin Lovelace provide practical advice on a range of topics—from optimizing the set-up of RStudio to leveraging C++—that make this book a useful addition to any R user’s bookshelf. Academics, business users, and programmers from a wide range of backgrounds stand to benefit from the guidance in Efficient R Programming.

- [R, Databases, and Docker](https://smithjd.github.io/sql-pet/) This book will help you create a hybrid environment on your machine that can mimic some of the uncharted territory in your organization. It goes far beyond the basic connection issues and covers issues that you face when you are finding your way around or writing queries to your organization’s databases, not just when maintaining inherited scripts.

- [Mastering Software Development in R](https://bookdown.org/rdpeng/RProgDA/) This book is designed to be used in conjunction with the course sequence Mastering Software Development in R, available on Coursera. The book covers R software development for building data science tools. As the field of data science evolves, it has become clear that software development skills are essential for producing useful data science results and products. You will obtain rigorous training in the R language, including the skills for handling complex data, building R packages and developing custom data visualizations. You will learn modern software development practices to build tools that are highly reusable, modular, and suitable for use in a team-based environment or a community of developers.

- [R for Data Science](http://r4ds.had.co.nz/) This is the website for “R for Data Science”. This book will teach you how to do data science with R: You’ll learn how to get your data into R, get it into the most useful structure, transform it, visualise it and model it. In this book, you will find a practicum of skills for data science. Just as a chemist learns how to clean test tubes and stock a lab, you’ll learn how to clean data and draw plots—and many other things besides. These are the skills that allow data science to happen, and here you will find the best practices for doing each of these things with R. You’ll learn how to use the grammar of graphics, literate programming, and reproducible research to save time. You’ll also learn how to manage cognitive resources to facilitate discoveries when wrangling, visualising, and exploring data.

- [Functional programming and unit testing for data munging with R](https://b-rodrigues.github.io/fput/) This book serves to show how functional programming and unit testing can be useful for the task of data munging. This book is not an in-depth guide to functional programming, nor unit testing with R. If you want to have an in-depth understanding of the concepts presented in these books, I can’t but recommend Wickham (2014a), Wickham (2015) and Wickham and Grolemund (2016) enough. Here, I will only briefly present functional programming, unit testing and building your own R packages. Just enough to get you (hopefully) interested and going.

- [plotly for R](https://plotly-book.cpsievert.me/) This website explains and partially documents the R package plotly, a high-level interface to the open source JavaScript graphing library plotly.js (which powers plot.ly). The R package already has numerous examples and documentation on https://plot.ly/r and https://plot.ly/ggplot2, but this website provides more of a cohesive narrative to help explain fundamental concepts and recent developments. By reading from start to finish, readers new to R and plotly should be able to get up and running fairly quickly. That being said, advanced R and plotly users should still find the majority of this material useful and informative. I highly recommend copying/pasting examples into your R console, and modifying them as you read along, to aid the learning process.

- [R Markdown: The Definitive Guide](https://bookdown.org/yihui/rmarkdown/) The document format “R Markdown” was first introduced in the knitr package (Xie 2015, 2018d) in early 2012. The idea was to embed code chunks (of R or other languages) in Markdown documents. In fact, knitr supported several authoring languages from the beginning in addition to Markdown, including LaTeX, HTML, AsciiDoc, reStructuredText, and Textile. Looking back over the five years, it seems to be fair to say that Markdown has become the most popular document format, which is what we expected. The simplicity of Markdown clearly stands out among these document formats.

- [Exploratory Data Analysis with R](https://bookdown.org/rdpeng/exdata/) This book covers the essential exploratory techniques for summarizing data with R. These techniques are typically applied before formal modeling commences and can help inform the development of more complex statistical models. Exploratory techniques are also important for eliminating or sharpening potential hypotheses about the world that can be addressed by the data you have. We will cover in detail the plotting systems in R as well as some of the basic principles of constructing informative data graphics. We will also cover some of the common multivariate statistical techniques used to visualize high-dimensional data.

- [Fundamentals of Data Visualization](https://serialmentor.com/dataviz/) The book is meant as a guide to making visualizations that accurately reflect the data, tell a story, and look professional. It has grown out of my experience of working with students and postdocs in my laboratory on thousands of data visualizations. Over the years, I have noticed that the same issues arise over and over. I have attempted to collect my accumulated knowledge from these interactions in the form of this book. The book’s source code is hosted on GitHub, at https://github.com/clauswilke/dataviz.

- [The tidyverse style guide](http://style.tidyverse.org/index.html) Good coding style is like correct punctuation: you can manage without it, butitsuremakesthingseasiertoread. This site describes the style used throughout the tidyverse. It was originally derived from Google’s R style guide, but has evolved and expanded considerably over the years.

- [Mongolite User Manual](https://jeroen.github.io/mongolite/) This book provides a high level introduction to using MongoDB with the mongolite client in R.

- [Text Mining with R](https://www.tidytextmining.com/) This book serves as an introduction of text mining using the tidytext package and other tidy tools in R. The functions provided by the tidytext package are relatively simple; what is important are the possible applications. Thus, this book provides compelling examples of real text mining problems.

- [Feature Engineering and Selection: A Practical Approach for Predictive Models](https://bookdown.org/max/FES/) The goals of Feature Engineering and Selection are to provide tools for re-representing predictors, to place these tools in the context of a good predictive modeling framework, and to convey our experience of utilizing these tools in practice.

- [Statistical Inference via Data Science](https://moderndive.com/) This book will help you develop your “data science toolbox”, including tools such as data visualization, data formatting, data wrangling, and data modeling using regression. With these tools, you’ll be able to perform the entirety of the “data/science pipeline” while building data communication skills

- [R Graphics Cookbook, 2nd edition](https://r-graphics.org/) A practical guide that provides more than 150 recipes to help you generate high-quality graphs quickly, without having to comb through all the details of R’s graphing systems. 

- [Data Visualization with R](https://rkabacoff.github.io/datavis/) R is an amazing platform for data analysis, capable of creating almost any type of graph. This book helps you create the most popular visualizations - from quick and dirty plots to publication-ready graphs. The text relies heavily on the ggplot2 package for graphics, but other approaches are covered as well.

- [Interactive web-based data visualization with R, plotly, and shiny](https://plotly-r.com/index.html) In this book, you’ll gain insight and practical skills for creating interactive and dynamic web graphics for data analysis from R

- [Techincal Analysis with R](https://bookdown.org/kochiuyu/Technical-Analysis-with-R/) This short book is a short introduction on how to use R and RStudio to do financial data analysis from the beginning. No prior knowledge of R is required. While you will learn various skills to work on R programming but the main goal is to learn how to use R to backtest a trading strategy and evaluate its performance.

- [Hands-on Machine Learning with R](https://bradleyboehmke.github.io/HOML/) You will learn how to build and tune these various models with R packages that have been tested and approved due to their ability to scale well. However, our motivation in almost every case is to describe the techniques in a way that helps develop intuition for its strengths and weaknesses. 

- [Mastering Shiny](https://mastering-shiny.org/) Shiny is a framework for creating web applications using R code. It is designed primarily with data scientists in mind, and to that end, you can create pretty complicated Shiny apps with no knowledge of HTML, CSS, or JavaScript. 

- [Principles of Econometrics with  R](https://bookdown.org/ccolonescu/RPoE4/) Resource for the “Principles of Econometrics” textbook by Carter Hill, William Griffiths and Guay Lim, 4-th edition (Hill, Griffiths, and Lim 2011).

- [Processing and Analyzing Financial Data with R](https://www.msperlin.com/pafdR/) This book introduces the reader to the use of R and RStudio as a platform for processing and analyzing financial data.

- [Happy Git and GitHub for the useR](https://happygitwithr.com/) Happy Git provides opinionated instructions on how to: Install Git and get it working smoothly with GitHub, in the shell and in the RStudio IDE. Develop a few key workflows that cover your most common tasks. Integrate Git and GitHub into your daily work with R and R Markdown.

Misc books [here](https://bookdown.org/home/archive/)
